## 1. Where should you start
- You have expected savings and expected investment growth
- In your first decades of working, most of your change in wealth is generated by your yearly savings
- As you age, your investments will be worth more however

## 2. How much should you save?
- When you can save more, save more. When you can save less, save less. There's no hard rule, flexibility is good
- People who make the most money compared to others usually save more
- tldr: Save what you can and stop worrying about it

## 3. How to save more
- Increasing income is better than limiting spend for saving money.
- Its easier for higher income households to save money, they don't spend on necessities at the same rate
- The consistent way to get rich is to grow your income and invest in income-producing assets
- The book describes several ways to increase your income

## 4. How to spend guilt free
- The 2x Rule
- Focus on maximuzing fulfillment
- 2x rule is: Whenever you want to splurge on something, invest 2x of that amount. Makes you re-evalute: If you're not willing to save 2x for it, then its not worth it
- Buy things that are fulfilling and help you live the life you want. Money is a tool to create the life you want
- The difficult part is not spending the money, its figuring out what you want

## 5. How much lifestyle creep is okay?
- Increase in spending (lifestyle creep spending) can result in later retirement as you have to save to afford that spend in retirement as well
- General rule: Save 50% of your raises

## 6. Should you ever go into debt?
The most useful motives to consieder debt can be:
- To reduce risk
- To generate a return greater than the cost to borrow
- Ex: Someone may choose not to pay off their mortgage so they can have more cash in hand in case of an emergency (a risk reduction strategy)
- Non mortgage, financial debt can stress you out. Avoid it if you can

## 7. Should you rent or should you buy?
The right time to buy a home is when
- You plan on being in that location for at least 10 years
- You have a stable personal and professional life
- You can afford it

There seems to be no hard rule here. You need to do whats best for your personal and financial situation

## 8. How to save for a down payment (and other big purchases)
- Cash is the safest way to save for things like a down payment
- When saving for last than 2 years, cash is the way to go
- A two year period favours cash, but a five year period favours bonds
- A switching point is likely somewhere in between -- the 3 year mark.

## 9. When can you retire?
- The 4% rule says you can withdraw 4% of your investments early without running out of money
- If you have no other income, the book recommends saving 25x your yearly spend to retire
- But, you may have social security benefits. In this case, you only need to apply the 25x rule what your benefits don't cover as far as your spending goes
- Spending actually seems to decline as people get older
- Your biggest concern with retirement isn't money related. Retiring is a lifestyle change. What are you going to retire to?
- Retiring can be a lonely existence. You'll no longer be important or relevant. You'll operate between existence and non-existence
- Money can solve some of your problems, but it can't solve all of your problems

## 10. Why you should invest
1. Saving for your future self
2. To preserve your money against inflation
3. To replace your human capital with financial capital

## 11. What should you invest in?
- Looks like you have to do your own research on this one and see what type of risk you're comfortable with!
- Stocks are great, but they are not for the faint of heart. There are a few 50% declines every half a century, 30% decline every four to five years and 10% declines at least every other year!
- Bonds tend to rise when stocks fall and they have a more consistent income ratio compared to stocks+
- Their returns however are low
- Investment properties can have higher returns (12-15%) but managing the property and the tenants can be a headache
- There are a few other things in the book (farmland, REITs, own business, VC, etc. Refer back to the book if you need it)

## 12. Why you shouldn't buy individual stocks
- You can't beat a broad index of companies
- There's also an existential argument. How do you know if you're good at it? It's very hard to tell.

## 13. How soon should you invest?
- Most markets go up most of the time
- Author argues: Invest as soon as possible. The best time to start was yesterday. The second best time is today!
- Average in underperforms buy now most of the time

## 14. Why you shouldn't wait to buy the dip
- Buy the dip underperforms dollar cost averaging (ex: investing 100$ every month for 40 years)

## 15. Why investing depends on luck
- You could be born in a period of economic malayse, or could retire in a bear market. You can't control the market.

## 16. Why you shouldn't fear volatility
- Sometimes the biggest risk you can take is taking no risk at all (uh-oh)
- If you want to build wealth, you have to accept some degree of volatility
- Playing it too safe with investing can have negative consequences too, they just take a while to show up (ex: you'll miss out on gains!)
- Volatility is part of the game. Two or three times a century there will be a 50% decline in prices. You gotta be able to stomach it

## 17. How to buy during a crisis
- The time to buy is when there's blood on the streets
- If you find yourself with investable cash during a market correction, it might be one of the best opportunities you're going to get!
- Eventually the market will return to what it was and you'll reap those benefits!

## 18. When should you sell?
1. To rebalance your portfolio
2. To get out of a concentrated (or losing) position
3. To meet your financial needs
Otherwise, there may be no reason to sell.
- Since markets tend to go up over time, usually the best time to sell is as late as possible.
- You can rebalance your portfolio without paying taxes by simply buying more of what you need
- You can also sell to get out of a concentrated position (ex: selling shares from a company you work on)

## 20. Why you will never feel rich
- You'll always find someone richer to compare yourself to

## 21. The most important asset
- Time is your most valuable asset. You can get more money, but you can't get more time.